---
layout: post
title: "Day 1 of #100DaysOfCode"
description: "Javascript & some GIS"
date: 2017-08-07
tags: ['#100DaysOfCode', 'Javascript','GIS']
comments: true
share: true
---


# Day 1

Today is the day I have begun a commitment to the #100DaysOfCode challenge. I had been coding before the challenge came about, but not at the consistency that I feel one should be. The challenge, for myself, is figuring out what to do each day. It will help to set clear goals for projects to be. 

## Thoughts on Codewars

Today I spent an hour or so doing two Katas on Codewars. The first one, Duck Duck Goose, was focused on the use of modulars. Thankfully, I had the experience to finish that one fairly quick. The second one, compare ascii values of two strings, was much more difficult. There were various challenges that had to be met such as using charCodeAt() for each value and to check for null strings, empty strings, or strings that contained non-alphabetical characters such as numbers. There were multiple ways of going about it. The challenge is to find the path of least resistance to your destination. 

## Thoughts on ShorelineSite

The past weeks at work has been focusing on shoreline changes in Maryland. I thought it would be fun to create an online map showing these shoreline changes by Decade. The data can be found publicly from the Maryland iMap website. I used Mapbox-gl-js to essentially create a simple toggle for each decade that had (mostly) complete shoreline coverage for the decade it was from. I finally got the layer toggle to work for the three deacdes including 1930, 1990, and 2000. I hope to style it a bit more and add a legend for each decade so that users can see which color is where. There are some places that are so close together, you really have to zoom in to see the changes through the years.


## Conclusion

Well, this is just a simple start. My goal is to keep this up for the 100 days and beyond! The act of getting it on the web should be helpful to keeping consistency going.