---
layout: post
title: "Introduction to the Mapping Module of ArcPy"
description: "Automating map creation in layouts with Arcpy's mp class"
date: 2018-06-19
tags: ['ArcPy', 'GIS', 'Python']
comments: true
share: true
---

# Figuring out arcpy.mp 

I've been busy the past few months after having acquired steady employment, which has been good. It also means that my time spent on web development has gone down a bit. This is not a bad thing because it has focused my attention on Python for the convenience of actually applying to work. I even gave a presentation on my experience working with arcpy. Now I am continuing my work on getting more comfortable with arcpy.

Before I go any further, I must note that this post is focused on arcpy within ArcGIS Pro, because Python 3 is the future.

This weekend was spent, partially, figuring out a certain area of ArcPy that I have never used before. My goal was to iterate through a selection of features, zoom to those features in the mapframe, export that map, then move on to the next one. This is the mapping module, or how to use python to automate map creation. I found [this page](https://pro.arcgis.com/en/pro-app/arcpy/mapping/migratingfrom10xarcpymapping.htm) to be helpful in learning this part of arcpy. 

In addition to my ignorance, the biggest hurdle to solve was zooming to each feature to get the new map. My ignorance refers to me completely believing that I could this without having a layout created. I'll be going through some of the script I have written out so far.


### Gathering the essential properties of the Project

```python
aprx = arcpy.mp.ArcGISProject("CURRENT")
layout = aprx.listLayouts()[0]
mapframe = layout.listElements('MAPFRAME_ELEMENT')[0]
title = layout.listElements("TEXT_ELEMENT")[0]
```

First things first, we have to gather some properties from within Pro. These first two lines of code start out by letting us use the mapping module by saving a reference to the class to the variable aprx. The next variable, layout, refers to a layout I created that includes a mapframe and a title. This the reason for the [0] after the call to listLayouts(), as we want the first (and only) one we made. The last two lines refer to the elements within the layout that we created. Since I was teaching myself I kept it simple with only a mapframe and a title. 

### Making a selection and a layer to iterate over.

```python
md_va = arcpy.MakeFeatureLayer_management("C:\\Users\\Kevin\\Desktop\\StateProjects\\statesHistoricalBoundaries.shp", "md_va", "\"id\" LIKE '%md%' OR \"id\" LIKE '%va%'  OR \"id\" LIKE '%ca%' ")

newData = []
```

This single line does a lot for us, so I wanted to focus on it in it's own part. This creates the selected features I want to iterate over, in this case, selected states of Maryland, Virginia, and California from the shapefile I put in as the first parameter, the second being the title of the layer in the contents, and the third, "\"id\" LIKE '%md%' OR \"id\" LIKE '%va%'  OR \"id\" LIKE '%ca%' ", is the query I am making to get only the states of MD, VA, and CA. The list being created is a structure to hold data that we will be gathering in the next code sample. 

### Getting data out of the box

The next part will be iterating over these selected features and getting the geographic attributes from them to place the zoom in a correct place.

```python
for row in arcpy.da.SearchCursor(md_va, ["ID", "SHAPE@"]):
    newData.append([row[0].extent, row[1]])
```

The SearchCursor lets arcpy iterate over the features in the feature layer that we created earlier, md_va. The second parameter of SearchCursor designates which fields we want to see come out of the data to put into the empty list we created, NoData. The 'SHAPE@' field is especially important as that will help get our extent coordinants (with the .extent property). This will allow us to position the maps so that they focus only on the feature we want to show in that one map. 

### Making the maps

We now have all the ingredients prepped and ready to go. We just need to edit the layout with the data we want on them for each feature we want to create a map for.

```python
i=0
for num in newData:
    title.text = num[1]
    mapframe.camera.setExtent(num[0])
    layout.exportToJPEG("C:\\Users\\Kevin\\Desktop\\StateProjects\\part-" + str(i) + ".jpeg")
    i+= 1
```
This for loop referenced here goes through each feature we added to the newData list from the previous for loop. The title.text refers to the title variable we created earlier and the text property is what allows us to change the title. The mapframe.camera.setExtent() is the VIP of the script as it allows us to change the view of the camera in the layout, so the map is focusing on the feature. The last line is exporting the layout as a jpeg (using default settings.) I have a number, i, iterating to distinguish between the different maps for this example. This will change as I apply this script to workflows.

### That's it 

We now have multiple maps based on a selection of features from the original layer. I was using test data as I was learning about the mapping module. The key part was that diagram I posted a link to above, showing all the parts of the module and how they work together. Here is the [the page](https://pro.arcgis.com/en/pro-app/arcpy/mapping/introduction-to-arcpy-mp.htm) with all the information on the mapping module within ArcPro.