---
layout: post
title: "A Look Back On 2018 and Into 2019"
description: "Looking backwards and forwards"
date: 2019-01-03
tags: ['Tech', 'GIS', 'Goals']
comments: true
share: true
---

# Looking back on this year

My life changed at the beginning of 2018 as I began working for a local government. I had previously been interning for them in 2017 in a different position before
applying for and receiving a contractor job. It isn't full time, but it is a step in the right 
direction. The nice part of this job was the flexibility of it, which gave
me some time to pursue some other things. However, I don't think I fully took
advantage of this and this is something I need to get better at. 

## What I posted on

I went almost half a year before posting anything on this blog. I won't say it was
myself adapting to a new job, but it may have had something to do with it.

## Working with Arcpy by Selecting by Location and the Mapping module

This was a post of automating a process for producing print maps if needed. I realize ArcGIS Pro has it's own thing for automating maps, but still wanted to use the mapping module within ArcPy. 

Posts are [here for Mapping Module](https://kevinmanion.com/2018-06-19/Arcpy-mp/), [here for Select by Location](https://kevinmanion.com/2018-06-26/Select-by-Location/)

## Using the Command Line

I remember being fearful of the command line, which is unbelievable now because one can get pretty far with just a few basic commands.  I wouldn't say I'm an expert, but by using the command line, one gets more comfortable. The existence of some great command line tools for spatial data makes it even better. This was the topic of the post I made in August, based on ogr2ogr, ogrinfo, and gdalinfo. Ogr2ogr is a tool for working with gis data formats, ogrinfo returns info about vector file formats, whereas gdalinfo returns info about raster files. My one blindspot is working with rasters, which I am also trying to get better with this year.

Post is [here](https://kevinmanion.com/2018-08-19/Command-Line-for-GIS/)

## A Post that didn't make it.

I was listening to the [Mappyist Hour](http://www.themappyisthour.com/) and one of the hosts had stated how well the videos at SciPy had been produced. I had little experience with Pandas or any of those types of libraries for Python. They had videos for beginning on working with Pandas and Numpy. It eventually evolved into me playing with my Dota 2 statistics that I had pulled out of Valve's API with the help of Python library. My flirtation with data science did not last long, but am thinking I need to give it a try in R.

## PostGIS

Databases are something I didn't know much about. In fact, I didn't use SQL really until my CS50 class had a project that focused on back-end web development with Python. PostGIS is great that it builds on top of PostgreSQL, which itself is free. The free part may not be as important as the open source part, which is where developers are actively contributing to the product, similar to other open source Geospatial software such as QGIS. I have been practicing writing queries on various datasets, flirted briefly with pgRouting, and even wrote a web application that uses PostGIS for some it's actions. 


## Updates not featured as posts on this blog 

### Tornado path viewer

This simple application came from an idea of doing a spatial analysis of where one would like to retire. The thought of all those variables became too much for me to bear so I thought let's start with one where I can easily get the data, which was the weather. Specifically tornadoes. I turned this into my own tornado path viewer, where you could view the tornado data on a web map by state and filter by years. Or you can enter a city with a state and see all tornadoes that have come within 10 miles of that city center. All of this is possible with Flask and PostGIS. My 2019 goal is to get it online, with as little bugs as possible.

### Adding Features to this Blog Theme

This Blog Theme on github was written to be a blog, but I found that I need a portfolio as well. This gave me an opportunity to edit the theme a little bit and create a 'Projects' tab on the top of the site. The funny part may be the fact I added the theme before I actually have any projects to share, but the tornado viewer posted right up above will get a write up very soon as it's available online.


# Goals for 2019

## Weather Application Online

That is my carryover goal from last year that I hope to get resolved within the first few weeks of 2019. As mentioned above, I hope to get this online very soon.

## Blog more

I have taken more action towards documenting what I get stuck on, what I've learned, etc through a OneNote notebook. This has been great for me as I can go back if I forgot something and see how past Kevin resolved the problem, or where past Kevin was when he got stuck. However, I think I need to become more public with what I'm doing, possibly aiming for a 2 posts a month rate 
on this blog. The topics would mostly be what I'm currently working on.

## Increased awareness and keeping myself accountable to these goals

I think one is able to keep going at a goal if they know what lies when they achieve that goal. This past year definitely was an improvement over previous years, but I have to stay the path! I need to find some ways to make this more a SMART goal...

I think we'll stop there for this New Year's Post. All I can say it that there will be more to come in 2019!