---
layout: post
title: "A Trip to San Diego and FOSS4GNA"
description: "The 2019 FOSS4NGA"
date: 2019-05-05
tags: ['FOSS4G', 'GIS', 'FOSS4GNA']
comments: true
share: true
---


# Experiencing FOSS4GNA for the First Time

This was a great event as a first time attendee. There were many talks that brought the many
interests that GIS intersects. I was focused mostly on how local governments were utilizing open source
software. However, that did not mean that I only sought that category, as there was a talk about using FOSS4G
to detect ancient hill mounts in Ohio. This speaker was doing this all on his own and so did not have the budget 
required to acquire other tools and relied on FOSS4G Software to make it work.  

The best part about it though was the meeting various people who are using the same tools you are. When you're out
on your own it can be pretty intimidating. It forces you to make friends and you find yourself asking others at the lunch table
if that seat is taken. That process started the day before the conference even began when I was sitting with
another conference goer at the hotel breakfast asking me if I was there for a conference. That question lead us to having breakfast together
for the next two mornings. I remember a discussion at one lunch table discussing the how the key to FOSS4GNA is the availability of 
customizing your software. The example the table provided was the plugin repository in QGIS and how anyone can add what they 
want to write to the software. It was a lively discussion and representative of the discussions that would occur between attendees
outside of the sessions.

## Talks that stand out a week later

Randall Hale gave a great talk regarding FOSS4GNA in local government. The focus was on his meeting a representative at last year's FOSS4GNA in St. Louis and how he was asked to convert their stack to FOSS4G. The county had two licenses of ArcDesktop and their GIS techs were using a flash drive as a central repository. They would share it among themselves whenever they made changes and it's pretty remarkable that is how it was done. He also had them find a server they could use from an old windows server and using that to store their data. The county is now using a PostgreSQL database and is NG911 ready thanks to Randall's efforts. There were also some slides to show FOSS4G meetups he has been doing throughout the SouthEastern United States. I was happy to hear of strong attendance throughout the 4 or so meetings he had organized.

Another talk that stood out to me was Will Cadell's talk about geospatial Analytics eating the world. The secret is in the title
as the term used is geospatial and not GIS. The title was based on another speaker's talk on how software would eat the world from 2011 (whose name I can't remember). It's gotten to that point with geospatial data thanks to a few factors. We now have cloud computing to do the analysis and to test at various scales. The necessity of cloud computing is required due to the amount of
geospatial data brought to us by the increasing number of satellites in orbit. These are things that I had not given much thought to.

Another revelation to me was how much AWS was used. This is probably due to my ignorance of things that are capable on AWS, as I only use an S3 bucket to host the site you are reading. Will's talk put in perspective how much data there is and the real necessity that is cloud computing for handling that data. I am still new to this world as this weekend I was learning how to use an EC-2 instance. Once you get used to their terminology, it's not as bad as I thought, thanks to another person I met putting it in perspective for me. This helped to put in perspective the challenge of working
with AWS and to get back on the horse.

On that note, I will conclude that I am glad that I attended the conference and hope to attend another one in the future. It was a good reminder of all the work going on in that community and how it
should not be taken for granted.






