---
layout: post
title: "A Look Back On 2018 and Into 2019"
description: "A waltz into the PostGIS world"
date: 2019-01-01
tags: ['Tech', 'GIS', 'Goals']
comments: true
share: true
---

# Looking back on this year

My life changed at the beginning of this year as I began working for a local governemnt
in January. I had previously been interning for them in 2017 in a different position before
applying for and receiving a contractor job. It wasn't full time, but it was a step in the right 
direction. The nice part of this job was the flexibility of it, which gave
me some time to pursue some other things on my time. However, I don't think I fully took
advantage of this and this is something I need to get better at. Time management
has never been a strong suit of mine, but I am practicing better. 

## What I posted on

I went almost half a year before posting anything on this blog. I won't say it was
myself adapting to a new job, but it may have had something to do with it. :)

## Working with Arcpy by Selecting by Location and the Mapping module

This was a post of forming an automative process for producing print maps
if needed. I realize ArcGIS Pro has it's own thing for automating maps, but still wanted to 
use the mapping module within ArcPy. 

Posts are [here for Mapping Module](https://kevinmanion.com/2018-06-19/Arcpy-mp/), [here for Select by Location](https://kevinmanion.com/2018-06-26/Select-by-Location/)

## Using the Command Line

I remember being fearful of the command line, which I can't really believe now because you can get pretty
far with just a few basic commands. I wouldn't say I'm an expert, but by using the command line, you 
just get better with it. The shock of there being some great command line tools for spatial data makes it even better.
This was the jist of the post I made in August, based on ogr2ogr, ogrinfo, and gdalinfo. Ogr2ogr is a tool
for working with gis data formats, ogrinfo returns info about vector file formats, whereas gdalinfo returns info 
about raster files. It doesn't take much to do a lot with the command line.

Post is [here](https://kevinmanion.com/2018-08-19/Command-Line-for-GIS/)
## A Post that didn't make it.

I was listening to the [Mappyist Hour](http://www.themappyisthour.com/) and one of the hosts had stated how well
the videos at SciPy had been produced. I had little experience with Pandas or any of those types of libraries 
for Python. They had videos for beginning on working with Pandas and Numpy. It eventually evolved into me 
playing with my Dota 2 statistics that I had pulled out of Valve's API with the help of Python library. My flirtation with data science
did not last long, but am thinking I need to get more into R this year and just basic statistics in general.

## PostGIS

Databases are something I don't know much about. In fact, I didn't use SQL really until my CS50 class had a project that
focused on back-end web development with Python. PostGIS is great that it builds on top of PostgreSQL, which itself is free.
The free part may not be as important as the open source part, which is where developers are actively contributing to the 
product, similar to other open source Geospatial software such as QGIS. I have been practicing writing queries on various
datasets, flirted briefly with pgRouting, and even wrote a web application that uses PostGIS for some it's 
actions. 


## Updates not featured as posts on this blog 

### Tornado path viewer

This simple application came from an idea of doing a spatial analysis of where one would like to retire. The thought
of all those variables became too much for me to bear so I thought let's start with just one where I can easily
get the data, which was the weather (this may not be so easily with the current shutdown going on.) A book written by
authors (among which, one was the other co-host of the podcast reference above) gave me a sketch of producing a flask
application with some PostGIS function. I decided to turn this into my own tornado path viewer, where you could view 
the tornado data on a web map by state and filter by years. Or you can enter a city with a state and see all 
tornadoes that have come within 10 miles of that city center. All of this is possible with Flask and PostGIS. My
2019 goal is to get it online, with as little bugs as possible.

### Adding Features to this Blog Theme

This Blog Theme on github was written to be a blog, but I found that I need a portfolio as well. This gave me 
an opportunity to edit the theme a little bit and create a 'Projects' tab on the top of the site. The funny part may 
be the fact I added the theme before I actually have any projects to share, but the tornado viewer posted right 
up above will get a write up very soon as it's available online.


# Goals for 2019

## Weatherpplication Online

That is my carryover goal from last year that I hope to get resolved within the first few weeks of 2019. As mentioned above,
I hope to get this online very soon.

## Blog more

I have taken more action towards documenting what I get stuck on, what I've learned, etc through a OneNote notebook. This has
been great for me as I can go back if I forgot something and see how past Kevin resolved the problem, or where past Kevin was
when he got stuck. However, I think I need to become more public with what I'm doing, possibly aiming for a 2 posts a month rate 
on this blog. The topics would mostly be what I'm currently working on.

## Increased awareness and keeping myself accountable to these goals

I think one is able to keep going at a goal if they know what lies when they achieve that goal. This past year definitely was
an improvement over previous years, but I have to stay the path! I need to find some ways to make this more a SMART goal...

I think we'll stop there for this New Year's Day. All I can say it that there will be more to come in 2019!